In the previous video you saw a few
examples of how vectorization,
by using built in functions and
by avoiding explicit for
loops, allows you to speed
up your code significantly.
Let's look at a few more examples.
The rule of thumb to keep in mind is, when
you're programming your new networks, or
when you're programming just a regression,
whenever possible avoid
explicit for-loops.
And it's not always possible to never
use a for-loop, but when you can
use a built in function or find some
other way to compute whatever you need,
you'll often go faster than if
you have an explicit for-loop.
Let's look at another example.
If ever you want to compute a vector
u as the product of the matrix A,
and another vector v,
then the definition of our matrix
multiply is that your Ui is
equal to sum over j,, Aij, Vj.
That's how you define Ui.
And so
the non-vectorized implementation of this
would be to set u equals NP.zeros,
it would be n by 1.
For i, and so on.
For j, and so on..
And then u[i] plus equals
a[i][j] times v[j].
So now, this is two for-loops,
looping over both i and j.
So, that's a non-vectorized version,
the vectorized implementation which
is to say u equals np dot (A,v).
And the implementation on the right,
the vectorized version,
now eliminates two different for-loops,
and it's going to be way faster.
Let's go through one more example.
Let's say you already have a vector,
v, in memory and you
want to apply the exponential operation
on every element of this vector v.
So you can put u equals the vector,
that's e to the v1,
e to the v2, and so on,
down to e to the vn.
So this would be
a non-vectorized implementation,
which is at first you initialize
u to the vector of zeros.
And then you have a for-loop that
computes the elements one at a time.
But it turns out that Python and NumPy
have many built-in functions that allow
you to compute these vectors with just
a single call to a single function.
So what I would do to
implement this is import
numpy as np, and then what you
just call u = np.exp(v).
And so, notice that, whereas previously
you had that explicit for-loop,
with just one line of code here, just v
as an input vector u as an output vector,
you've gotten rid of the explicit
for-loop, and the implementation on
the right will be much faster that
the one needing an explicit for-loop.
In fact, the NumPy library has many
of the vector value functions.
So np.log (v) will compute
the element-wise log,
np.abs computes the absolute value,
np.maximum computes
the element-wise maximum
to take the max of every
element of v with 0.
v**2 just takes the element-wise
square of each element of v.
One over v takes the element-wise inverse,
and so on.
So, whenever you are tempted to write
a for-loop take a look, and see if there's
a way to call a NumPy built-in function
to do it without that for-loop.
So, let's take all of these learnings and
apply it to our logisti regression
gradient descent implementation,
and see if we can at least get rid
of one of the two for-loops we had.
So here's our code for
computing the derivatives for logistic
regression, and we had two for-loops.
One was this one up here, and
the second one was this one.
So in our example we had nx equals 2, but
if you had more features than
just 2 features then you'd
need have a for-loop over dw1,
dw2, dw3, and so on.
So its as if there's actually
a 4j equals 1, 2, and x.
dWj gets updated.
So we'd like to eliminate
this second for-loop.
That's what we'll do on this slide.
So the way we'll do so
is that instead of explicitly
initializing dw1, dw2, and so on to zeros,
we're going to get rid of this and
instead make dw a vector.
So we're going to set dw equals np.zeros,
and
let's make this a nx by 1,
dimensional vector.
Then, here, instead of this for
loop over the individual components,
we'll just use this
vector value operation,
dw plus equals xi times dz(i).
And then finally, instead of this,
we will just have dw divides equals m.
So now we've gone from having two
for-loops to just one for-loop.
We still have this one for-loop that loops
over the individual training examples.
So I hope this video gave you
a sense of vectorization.
And by getting rid of one for-loop
your code will already run faster.
But it turns out we could do even better.
So the next video will talk about how
to vectorize logistic aggression even
further.
And you see a pretty surprising result,
that without using any for-loops,
without needing a for-loop
over the training examples,
you could write code to process
the entire training sets.
So, pretty much all at the same time.
So, let's see that in the next video.